Hey, welcome back to the lecture. In this section you will concentrate on how we can a set up you know KEIL
based development environment for our micro-controller programming.
So, the bad thing about KEIL is it supports only Windows platform.
So, if you are using Mac or Linux then I would request you to skip this lecture or skip this entire
section on
KEIL. And you can jump to next section no problem.
All right.
So, now first step in setting up  KEIL based development environment for your micro-controller is downloading
a KEIL MDK software.
So, just type KEIL MDK in Google, just follow this link
MDK Version 5. Just open this and you'll be represented with this page.
All right. So, the MDK starts for micro-controller devlopment kit.
So, as KEIL says it is the most comprehensive software development solution for ARM based micro-controllers
and it includes all the components that you need to create, build, and debug embedded applications.
So, if you look at this product components diagram here. It is a full package of various tools, middlewares
the device HAL libraries and the CMSIS drivers as well as
the CMSIS APIs.The  very important
thing we notice here is the IDE. So, it gives us the KEIL micro vision IDE, where we you know write our code,we
edit our code etc..
Right?
So, and then it gives a KIEL micro vision debugger by which we debug our code on a microcontroller.
And it also provides ARMs natives C/  C++ compiler remember.
So, here we don't use the GCC compiler.
So, I think you can configure KEIL to use GCC based compiler. But by default ARM provides its own proprietary
compiler.
All the CMSIS- core APIs, DSP APIs,RTOS APIs etc. So, don't use CMSIS- DSP or RTOS in this course.
So, but we need
CMSIS core APIs,
which are actually used to talk to your micro-controller to be specifically to the core aspects of
your processor.
This MDK supports various devices. So, devices in this case means various  microcontrollers produced by different
vendors like TI,NXP ,ST etc..
So, all those devices which are based on ARM based processor.It gives use the startup code,
it gives you the  Device HAL  libraries,
CMSIS Drivers etc..
And it also gives you lots of middlewares.
Let's say, you want to design an application in which you want to convert your microcontroller into USB
device or USB host etc. So, you need to USB stack. Isn't it?
So, you need not to hunt for USB  stack outside .MDK itself gives you a stack
a USB stack by which you can convert your you  know  micro-controller or a board into USB Device
or you can add USB host functionality like that.
So, suppose if you want to interface your micro-controller to Ethernet pie and if you want
to run an IP stack,then it gives you IPV4 networking stack, IPV6 networking stack,
you can even run a file system on your microcontroller. So, it gives you all those drivers in the middleware
component.
So, it's a complete package of tools ,compilers, Device HALs, middlewares etc...
So, In this course you will majorly  using MDK micro-controller development kit for our course,
I'll be using KEIL MDK5  software and unfortunately as I said it doesn't support other platforms
than Windows.
And so that's why,  I have already explained how to use eclipse.
So ,if you are using Linux or Mac based systems, then you can parlally  used Eclipse based development setup
that I have explained previously.
So, I'll be using KEIL and
And if you are using Windows then you can definitely use KEIL  no problem.
But if you are using Mac or Linux then you can continue using Eclipse.
All right.
Great.
So, now let's download this software.
So, it comes with a different Editions.
So, all these are actually paid  editions like Essential, plus and professional those are paid editions. But MDK-
Lite is a code limited.
But, it's a free version is so
but the restriction is  you should not exceed a code size.
That is your binary size should not exceed 32 kilobytes.
So.
So, during compilation if it detects that if your code exceeds 32 kilobytes, then it will
start throwing errors, saying it cannot compile. Because the code size should be limited to 32 kilo
bytes.
So, but for most of our work.
I'm sure we don't exceed 32 kilo bytes. So, that's why we will  download KEIL MDK-Lite software.
Great.
So, now let's go and download this software.
Just click on download and install.
That will take you to this web page here and here you can click on download MDK-core, in order to download
the software.
And here you have to fill this form in order
download this software.So, I'll just quickly fill this form.
So, I just fill this form and then click on submit.
All right.
So, now what will do is,  Just click on this EXE file in order to download that software and we will  download
into our software and tool chain folder. Great!  download here.